add traffic shifting example for service mesh (#27845)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/servicemesh/envoy-traffic-shifting.rst

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _gs_envoy_traffic_shifting:

*******************
L7 Traffic Shifting
*******************

Cilium Service Mesh defines a ``CiliumEnvoyConfig`` CRD which allows users
to set the configuration of the Envoy component built into Cilium agents.

This example sets up an Envoy listener which load balances requests

> 90% of traffic to helloworld:v1 and 10% to helloworld:v2.

Reviewer: I was a bit confused about what this tutorial was for at first. Here's a small suggestion to make this section a little bit more clear:

```suggestion
This example sets up an Envoy listener which load balances requests
to the helloworld Service by sending 90% of incoming requests to the
backend ``helloworld-v1` and 10% of incoming requests to the backend
``helloworld-v2``.
```

Deploy Test Applications
========================

.. parsed-literal::

    $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/client-helloworld.yaml

The test workloads consist of:

> - One client Deployments, ``client``

Reviewer: Grammar nit

```suggestion
- One client Deployment, ``client``
```

> - One server Deployments, ``helloworld-v1`` and ``helloworld-v2``

Reviewer: I think this needs to say 'two'?

```suggestion
- Two server Deployments, ``helloworld-v1`` and ``helloworld-v2``
```

View information about these Pods:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ kubectl get pods --show-labels -o wide
    NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE                       NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES   LABELS
    client-64848f85dd-bnbl6           1/1     Running   0          30h   10.0.0.87    cilium-control-plane   <none>           <none>            kind=client,name=client,pod-template-hash=64848f85dd
    helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-5vhbg    1/1     Running   0          30h   10.0.0.141   cilium-control-plane   <none>           <none>            app=helloworld,pod-template-hash=776f57d5f6,version=v1
    helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-qlvqt     1/1     Running   0          30h   10.0.0.240   cilium-control-plane   <none>           <none>            app=helloworld,pod-template-hash=54df5f84b,version=v2

> 

Reviewer: I think it might be helpful to also add a code block here that has the user view information about the hello world service and its backends. What do you think?

Author: ok . added it.

Apply weight-based routing
==========================

Make an environment variable with the Pod name for client:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ export CLIENT=$(kubectl get pods -l name=client -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')

> Try making several requests to helloworld Service.

Reviewer: Small grammar nit:

```suggestion
Try making several requests to the helloworld Service.
```

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ for i in {1..10}; do  kubectl exec -it $CLIENT -- curl  helloworld:5000/hello; done

The test results are as follows::

    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-g656d
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-dl5z6
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-g656d
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-dl5z6
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-g656d
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-dl5z6
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-g656d
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-dl5z6
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-g656d
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-776f57d5f6-g656d

> The test results were as expected, 50% will send v1 and 50% will send v2 if you request the helloworld Service.

Reviewer: Can we refer to v1 and v2 as backends? I think that will help readers understand a bit more (also small grammar nits):

```suggestion
The test results were as expected. Of the requests sent to the helloworld service,
50% of them were sent to backend ``helloworld-v1`` and 50% of them were sent to
the backend ``helloworld-v2``.
```

Double-check whether your backend service is up and healthy.
The Envoy Discovery Service (EDS) has a name that follows the convention ``<namespace>/<service-name>:<port>``.

So, you need to define a different Kubernetes Service for each version.

.. parsed-literal::

    $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/helloworld-service-v1-v2.yaml

> Apply the ``envoy-helloworld-v1-90-v2-10.yaml`` file, which defines a ``CiliumEnvoyConfig``.

Reviewer: Do you think you could expand a bit on this section to describe a bit more about what is going on? It's a bit tricky to understand at first. I think adding some general information about how the envoy config works could be helpful. For instance something like this might be helpful:

```
A ``CiliumEnvoyConfig`` can be used to load balance traffic destined to one Service to a
group of backend Services. To load balance traffic to the helloworld Service, first create
individual Services for each backend Deployment:
```

This would help a user understand that backends in a `CiliumEnvoyConfig` are referred to by Services, not individual Deployments like with Kubernetes Services.

Author: OK. I totally agree with you, it's a good idea to add some tips here.

.. parsed-literal::

    $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/envoy-helloworld-v1-90-v2-10.yaml

.. include:: warning.rst

> Try making several requests to helloworld Service again.

Reviewer: Small grammar nit:

```suggestion
Try making several requests to the helloworld Service again.
```

Author: done.

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _gs_envoy_traffic_shifting:

*******************
L7 Traffic Shifting
*******************

Cilium Service Mesh defines a ``CiliumEnvoyConfig`` CRD which allows users
to set the configuration of the Envoy component built into Cilium agents.

This example sets up an Envoy listener which load balances requests
to the helloworld Service by sending 90% of incoming requests to the

> backend ``helloworld-v1` and 10% of incoming requests to the backend

Reviewer: I think there is a backtick missing here?

```suggestion
backend ``helloworld-v1`` and 10% of incoming requests to the backend
```

Author: thanks .  good catch. I fixed it.

``helloworld-v2``.

Deploy Test Applications
========================

.. parsed-literal::

    $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/client-helloworld.yaml

The test workloads consist of:

- One client Deployment, ``client``

> - Two server Deployment, ``helloworld-v1`` and ``helloworld-v2``

Reviewer: Since there are two deployments here, let's make 'Deployment' plural:
```suggestion
- Two server Deployments, ``helloworld-v1`` and ``helloworld-v2``
```

Author: ok.updated.

> View information about these Pods:

Reviewer: Since we added output for the helloworld service, I think this text needs to be updated:

```suggestion
View information about these Pods and the helloworld Service:
```

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ kubectl get pods --show-labels -o wide
    NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE                       NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES   LABELS
    client-64848f85dd-sjfmb          1/1     Running   0          2m23s   10.0.0.206   cilium-control-plane   <none>           <none>            kind=client,name=client,pod-template-hash=64848f85dd
    helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk   1/1     Running   0          2m23s   10.0.0.241   cilium-control-plane   <none>           <none>            app=helloworld,pod-template-hash=5845f97d6b,version=v1
    helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh   1/1     Running   0          2m23s   10.0.0.251   cilium-control-plane   <none>           <none>            app=helloworld,pod-template-hash=7d55d87964,version=v2

    $ kubectl get svc --show-labels

>     NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE                       NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES   LABELS

Reviewer: The header in the command output here looks incorrect. It looks like the output for `kubectl get pods` rather than `kubectl get svc`

Author: good catch.
I copied it directly from above, with typos.
I fixed it.

Reviewer: Can you take another look? It looks like the headers are off and don't line up with the rows below.

Author: updated.

>     NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE                       NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES   LABELS

Reviewer: The header in the command output here looks incorrect. It looks like the output for `kubectl get pods` rather than `kubectl get svc`

Author: updated.

Reviewer: Can you take another look? It looks like the headers are off and don't line up with the rows below.

Author: done.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/assets/19339970/fa65a04b-3ba7-4121-829d-0a3978c5cb1c)

Author: @learnitall  Could you take a look for this pr?

Apply weight-based routing
==========================

Make an environment variable with the Pod name for client:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ export CLIENT=$(kubectl get pods -l name=client -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')

Try making several requests to the helloworld Service.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ for i in {1..10}; do  kubectl exec -it $CLIENT -- curl  helloworld:5000/hello; done

The test results are as follows::

    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk

The test results were as expected. Of the requests sent to the helloworld service,

> 50% of them were sent to backend ``helloworld-v1`` and 50% of them were sent to

Reviewer: Grammar nit:

```suggestion
50% of them were sent to the backend ``helloworld-v1`` and 50% of them were sent to
```

Author: updated

the backend ``helloworld-v2``.

> Double-check whether your backend service is up and healthy.
> The Envoy Discovery Service (EDS) has a name that follows the convention ``<namespace>/<service-name>:<port>``.
> 
> So, you need to define a different Kubernetes Service for each version.
> 
> .. parsed-literal::
> 
>     $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/helloworld-service-v1-v2.yaml
> 
> 
> Apply the ``envoy-helloworld-v1-90-v2-10.yaml`` file, which defines a ``CiliumEnvoyConfig``. 
> ``CiliumEnvoyConfig`` can be used to load balance traffic destined to one Service to a
> group of backend Services. To load balance traffic to the helloworld Service, first create
> individual Services for each backend Deployment.
> 
> .. parsed-literal::
> 
>     $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/envoy-helloworld-v1-90-v2-10.yaml
> 

Reviewer: Do you think we could reorder this section a bit? Also, I'm not sure that mentioning the Envoy Discovery Service naming convention is too useful here, as the user can pick up on this by reading through the `CiliumEnvoyConfig` that you provided.

```suggestion
``CiliumEnvoyConfig`` can be used to load balance traffic destined to one Service to a
group of backend Services. To load balance traffic to the helloworld Service, first create
individual Services for each backend Deployment.

.. parsed-literal::

    $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/helloworld-service-v1-v2.yaml
 
Apply the ``envoy-helloworld-v1-90-v2-10.yaml`` file, which defines a ``CiliumEnvoyConfig`` to send 90% of traffic to the helloworld-v1 Service backend and 10% of traffic to the hellworld-v2 Service backend:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ kubectl apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/envoy/envoy-helloworld-v1-90-v2-10.yaml
```

Author: ok I updated it.

> View information about these Pods and Service:

Reviewer: Grammar nit, we have more than one service:

```suggestion
View information about these Pods and Services:
```

Author: updated.

    helloworld-v1   ClusterIP   10.96.0.240    <none>        5000/TCP   4s    app=helloworld,service=helloworld,version=v1
    helloworld-v2   ClusterIP   10.96.41.142   <none>        5000/TCP   4s    app=helloworld,service=helloworld,version=v2

.. include:: warning.rst

Try making several requests to the helloworld Service again.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ for i in {1..10}; do  kubectl exec -it $CLIENT -- curl  helloworld:5000/hello; done

The test results are as follows::

    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-7d55d87964-ns9kh
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk
    Hello version: v1, instance: helloworld-v1-5845f97d6b-gkdtk

> The test results were as expected if you request the helloworld Service, 90% will send v1 and 10% will send v2.

Reviewer: Can you change this to match the wording you used on lines 75-77?

Author: ok.done.

So far, you have successfully completed 90% of requests to helloworld v1 and 10% 

> of requests to helloworld v2 through ``CiliumEnvoyConfig``.

Reviewer: Can we remove this sentence? I don't think we need it as it repeats what you said in the last sentence.

Author: sure. We can remove it.  done.

Author: @learnitall  Thank you very much for your comments. I have modified it. Please take a look. Thank you.
